you could talk about digging deep in
psychology like you find your inner self
man like you got it you gotta want it no
you don't know you you walk you put one
foot in front of the other that's how
you do it
you
so sky have you been man you know this
alive feel like um left a few grenades
in my head been keeping them from
blowing up this is good not a bad thing
but you know yeah sorry about that
we have attended no it's fine I think
it's good so yeah what were you
mentioned I left a couple of grenades
sorry for doing that and what do you
mean by that
well I am I think the biggest one was
that things can be fixed and changed
that was just weird to me like IA did it
did not sit well with me at all like I
was thinking I pretty much had to then
go and think about everything in my life
that I thought couldn't be changed it
was hopeless and then I just was like
wow maybe these things can change that
was probably the biggest one yeah so
like my relationship with like people
that I you know fell out with or even my
brother right like anything can happen
it's not impossible to make those
differences I guess so sky this is gonna
sound kind of weird but I want you to
understand that the place that you're in
now is actually way harder than the
place that you were in before we talked
so like think about this for a second if
nothing can change and things are
irreversible then your responsibility in
life like what happens to your
responsibilities in life well then it
becomes easier because that's just like
that's like the quip of religion right
where you have all the answers free like
answered for you not saying it's bad
just saying that like no I think I think
you're right so there's a lot of solace
and protection in the idea that like
things are screwed forever yes and I
think that's what was that wasn't the
hardest thing was is because even though
I was able to analyze it more out there
our first talk the amount of
overwhelming support that people have
had in me in their faith in me to do
things I've never really been able to
to blind eye to my like to what I can do
or what can be accomplished but no
you're right now that you kind of like
hello can you see me yeah yeah okay my
monitors being dumb I was being I mean
in in a way it's kind of cowardly to
just think that nothing is that
everything is useless but I've never had
that door completely closed I've always
known that there's a small percent
chance that I can win but you show me
that there it's more than a small
percent chance which and you blew the
door open so it's like blew the door
open and now like I can just see like my
messy room in my head and like my dirty
bathroom and just everything I'm exposed
in a way that's why it feels yea good
terrible yeah so that's weird so let's
let's talk about that what do you mean
by terrible and what do you mean by good
terrible um I think that's great
language by the way oh thank you
well if you live your life kind of like
never really trying SuperDuper hard you
never really like as long as the door
that I had in my mind was barely cracked
open for the remainder of my life I
could have just said well if I would
have really put my heart into it I would
have been fine look at what I've done
before but now it's like now the door is
open so it's like oh well
guess now I really have to do it I
really have to actually go out there and
and and and be whatever it and it's a
terrible feeling because every single
thing that I've done in my life I've
never been world-class like I've been
pretty good at a lot of things I was but
I've never been like really truly
godlike and I can in games that I play
or even on YouTube and I feel like you
touched on why I feel like I just
protected myself by not really exposing
everything I have an M yes so this is
important sky you your ego has always
had a little bit of an out because you
never gave it your all right yeah that
like is it bad that I want to close the
door though no it's not bad that you
want to close the door that's because
that's what happens coz so here's the
things guy you've never really failed in
life because you've never really tried
now you're you're exposed to failing in
a completely different way it sucks
it's terrifying so most of the time we
half-ass things so that we leave
ourselves a little out right we say like
okay like if I had really not
procrastinated then I could have gotten
an a on this oh yes that yes prease I
feel that all the time and and so but
now it's dangerous territory because now
you're leaving yourself nowhere to hide
because now if the door is open and you
try your best and you fall up short what
does that mean about you me that I'm not
good it's like I'm like wow guys see I
told you I'm terrible
yes so that means that like now you're
exposing yourself to the your worst
fears about yourself being true I've got
nowhere to left to hide and it's it's
terrifying the other thing though you
say it's good terrible so I'm going to
use another word liber8
okay liberating what do you think about
that yeah I mean that makes sense I mean
it's it's you're you're you're right
it's it's it sucks and it feels bad but
it's just the overwhelming sensation
that that there is a possibility that
I'm the bet it's true that if I do put
everything in I am gonna end up being
mediocre and the only thing that I could
say to that is like well damn it like
like there's nothing else that could be
done then if every time I put everything
in and something something good no no so
Skyy here's the really really crazy
thing so you're you're you've taken the
first step of maybe a two step journey
so you're halfway there so the second
thing which is gonna be really so you
know opening the door has is not exactly
what you anticipated right like it's
good in some ways and it's bad in some
ways and it's just different and weird
so here's the cool thing when you give
it your all you're gonna fall short and
when you fall short it's gonna feel
amazing
you
Oh
words yeah what the vibe is what I want
to say but I had a nod my head and be
like oh yeah
no no say what it's talkin confusing No
okay the yes I I can see the benefit of
falling short in fact I would argue that
right now that my audience you know is
diminished it feels good knowing that I
can really go out and now do things that
I kind of have always wanted to do but
maybe I couldn't because I was too
nervous about a larger audience seeing
it now I feel like I can actually grind
the issue though is that there are so
many people that have invested in me in
ways that I couldn't even fathom to say
and it's like going out on stage and
falling
I'll know man this doesn't seem like
there's good from that yep exactly
exactly and so get your tweet by the way
about this I just didn't do it yet what
just letting you know I'm gonna retweet
your tweet about this conversation I
didn't do it yet that's why I want my
phone that's why yeah so sky-eye and
this is the thing I I don't I don't
think that I'm gonna I can try to
explain it to you I don't think it's
gonna make sense though until you
actually do it yeah I'm gonna try to
yeah and and so we can talk a little bit
about that but I just want to explain
kind of what I mean so now sky is gonna
give it as all and he's gonna go out on
stage and inevitably he's gonna fall
right because it's gonna happen at some
point
but the problem here is that the reason
that you need ego is because you lack
confidence you don't have faith that you
can do something and since you don't
have faith you can do something you hold
back a little bit right you don't give
it a hundred percent you give it like 98
percent because you're you're just a
terrified that giving it a hundred
percent will be not enough yeah but
here's the crazy thing when you fall
face-first on stage and then you get
back up and everyone cheers and then you
start singing or doing whatever it is
that you're gonna do and then you go off
stage and you're mortified and you're
like okay next time I go out on stage no
one is gonna be there because I fell and
then you're gonna go out on stage and
there's still people gonna be there and
you're gonna be like what the [ __ ] but I
fell and then you're gonna be so nervous
about it that you're gonna fall again
and real confidence doesn't come from
success like this is your problem sky is
that you the more successful you've
become the more your ego has like been
afraid that you're not worth it the more
you feel like kind of an impostor the
more that you feel like you're like
riding this wave that is eventually
gonna master yes oh my god that is the
perfect word that is yeah like oh man
I'm afraid of like doing something big
and then being like what we waited for
that and then just like you know I just
been it's like yeah that's not the guy
that we supported let's leave everyone
like yep so so here's where confidence
comes from right when you hit that
situation
everyone should walk out the door in
your deepest deepest fears they're
walking out the door and they're
abandoning you and you show up the next
day and they're still there yeah I hate
that I don't know why they here
I tell them on stream I'm like guys
you're subscribing to me you know I'm
just gonna leave for four months or
whatever like what are you doing like
wood let's be real you know give the
money to your mom like do something else
with it yeah I'm gonna finish this
because I'm a voter and I want to just
tweet this I I said that you
restructured in my mind you are Attica
you're the best what
okay he's unreal I'm here we go got it
now I'm ready okay thanks for tweeting
so skies there's something in particular
I me do you have questions or anything
or do something that you want to
questions you want to ask her I mean I
get delete if you want but no no um
there's just another grenade yeah sorry
I'm trying to like I'm trying to
remember everything that you said I will
review this the moment it's posted but I
also this might sound like a scapegoat
but I think that my weight has a really
big like role in all of this like no pun
intended but it I think that it has a a
massive role cuz I've only been skinny
once and that was when my youtube
channel was like at its peak oh my god
those are the days and then obviously
you know depression hit and then now I'm
back to looking like grimace or mr.
Potato Head but the big version of it so
it's really hard for me to execute all
the ideas that I want because I
definitely care about what everybody
thinks times a million mm-hmm but then I
also feel like I use it as an excuse oh
man it's a big mess yeah so I guess my
question is like what do you go ahead
sorry no no you're fine what
[Music]
what to like like what what happens now
I I'm just not sure what to do yeah
great so beautiful so you've done the
first right thing right which is that
you've noticed noticing is where
everything begins okay you've noticed
that your weight somehow influences the
way that you perceive yourself and how
those perceptions influence what you're
able to do and what kind of behaviors
you engage in
right that your weight sometimes keeps
you from doing things that you want to
do or should do all the time yeah and so
but the thing is it's all tangled up and
you're not quite sure how to go about
untangling it
right well yeah because member that's
that's also another thing it's like okay
well if I get skinny no more excuses
like yeah so what is that what is that
to spell it out for a sky beautiful
connection
I mean it just means that the the door
is actually it feels like the door is my
weight yes like the new tangible
representation of the door is my body he
[ __ ] Sigmund Freud would love you man
[Laughter]
that's the kind of thing that gets like
psychiatrists turned on like oh my god
like his weight is a psychosomatic
representation of the barriers in his
life that wouldn't feel good weighing
him down literally and there's puns
there it actually works on so many
levels yeah but that's that's what I
feel and I think as long as I can
remember I've definitely liked like I've
definitely tried a lot and again it
worked once yeah but unfortunately the
sad truth is the one time that it did
work was because I actually suffered a
very embarrassing leg injury and at the
time when I was dieting and that
happened I was like confined to my room
and I couldn't go anywhere or do
anything at all except play Final
Fantasy 14 so at that time I just ate my
diet food and stayed in my room and then
when my leg was feeling better I come
down and pants that was like three sizes
smaller and after that everybody was
like oh my god like I mean the picture
is pretty staggering so it's like even
then I can't really credit my weight
loss to some like breakthrough I was
forced in my bed by at like a leg injury
so it's like I didn't really do it yeah
yeah I mean I I so I see what you're
saying but I think you're actually
selling yourself a little bit short
because like if you're if you're
sedentary and playing ff14
all day long and you're not leaving your
house you could be eating like frozen
taquitos every day - oh my god yes right
I mean I mean yes it could be and so I
think I think you're actually doing your
yourself a little bit to service because
even in that moment like you could have
made unhealthy food choice
and you made healthy choices fair okay
yeah okay that none of that's true so be
careful about that right so be careful
about that part of your mind that
disavows your successes so like you have
to be careful because like your mind is
doing this very like interesting thing
where if you [ __ ] up whose fault is it
mine and if you succeed whose fault is
it who gets the credit
is it me not in this case right yeah
anything that is not me absolutely
beautiful
yeah so when our YouTube channel was at
its height ooh why was that sky cuz I
got um I got frustrated so I made a vlog
every single day in one month and it
exploded my channel is blew up and so at
that point it was like really hard to
deny that people didn't want to see me
and so it exploded there but then I
still left for a while but that was the
most content I've ever put out so so but
just listen listen to that the uses toss
out a really interesting sentence it was
really hard to deny that people didn't
want to see you but just think about
that the presumption is that you're
trying to deny that people want to see
you like that's where you start from is
that I'm not worth seeing and then the
evidence became so overwhelming that you
are worth seeing that you couldn't deny
it to yourself anymore but at the core
there's no sense of value to what you
bring to the table the evidence has to
be overwhelming that you're doing
something important that people enjoy
for you to like overcome it yes but this
is also something that I think one of my
biggest I don't know if this is a flaw
but I have a very very poor view of like
the world in terms of people like in
terms of people that are looking at me
my field of vision is really really
limited to like
Twitter and sometimes reddit so it's
like I look at my relationships with a
lot of big content creators for a long
time now to support this lifestyle I
pretty much asked to everybody for money
during my depression where I felt like I
couldn't work so a lot of my
relationships have been tarnished in
gossip channels here and there behind
the scenes of course now I'm kind of
known notoriously as a [ __ ] that just
keeps asking a friend that just keeps
asking everybody for money and in my
field of vision it makes me feel that
that is what every single person on
earth feels cuz you know in in in some
ways maybe in a conversation at PAX that
I wasn't - because I haven't been to
like an event in four years
maybe was on a stream maybe wasn't
passing maybe wasn't secret these things
get around it's a very malicious
business YouTube yeah so yeah but it's
hard for me to to see that so I think
sky the solution there is for you to not
be that thing cuz you they say it about
you and you believe to a certain degree
like there's a part of you that believes
that there's a part of you that doesn't
I'm not that like I'm not that person at
heart like any money that I've asked for
has not really ever been for me it's to
support this abusive lifestyle that I
had so part of me knows that I'm okay
like Skye Williams will live if I'm by
myself I will live but I do know that
I've asked a lot of people for money I
do know that I borrowed money I do know
I have to pay them back that is what I
am I don't want to be that and now at
this late stage in the game you're
giving me the tools that I need to
hopefully get myself out of this
situation but that's exactly what makes
it feel so hopeless because the hole is
pretty deep and even though again you're
giving me great tools it's really hard
for me to see the light I guess yeah so
I think that that's okay so like Mount
Everest was not climbed in a day
right yeah no no way so how do you climb
Mount Everest prayer and some tools sure
and so let's say I'm at the base of
Mount Everest and I have a rosary and I
have some crampons and some boots and
carabiners what do I do that right
ah
you gotta just dig deep somewhere so I
don't really want to climb that mountain
like sure I want to climb that med well
what do I do I'm sitting at the base of
Mount Everest what do you what I you you
walk absolutely right so it's like it's
such a simple answer that it's like hard
to see but like it's like you could talk
about digging deep in psychology like
you find your inner self man like you
got it you gotta want it no you don't
know you you walk you put one foot in
front of the other that's how you do it
it's not some like journey of like
coming of age and rediscovering yourself
you [ __ ] walk no so that's the
problem right is we think that progress
and life is a [ __ ] fairy tale we
think that it's a hero's journey and we
think that it's epic and you have to dig
deep within yourself you have to do some
real Samwise Gamgee level [ __ ] right
it's like Frodo and Mount Doom and like
oh my god it's like how did Frodo get to
Mount Doom Sam
we seen Lord of the Rings yes he just
one foot in front of the oven I'm
absolutely one foot in front of other no
matter what he guy he got messed up so
bad
- yeah and what is the one thing that he
didn't stop doing go to that mall yeah
what is what you're right that's it
people talk about the orcs they talk
about the ring they talk about Sam they
talk about Gandalf and like this is a
story of putting one foot in front of
the other yep no matter what no matter
what that's true so right sky when it
comes to getting out of your hole what
is the most important step you can take
the first one incorrect Danna love is
[ __ ] cuz everyone thinks they have the
right answers that was such a good one
though was a good one
what's the what's the most important
step what was the most important step in
Frodo's journey
nodding his head like all right let's go
okay yes and so getting a coalition of
people to help him nope those are the
tools those are the carabiners what's
the most important step that Frodo takes
I don't know I'm so he takes one step
right so he leaves somewhere is it like
um
Rivendell what's that place yeah yeah so
he he puts it he puts he takes one step
and he steps outside of Rivendell and
then would have one that's that's the
first step is that the most important
one
I'm making it sound like it's not
because I don't think it is you don't
think it is okay it feels like it is
because I think that I think when you
take a step to anywhere it's
so it's right it's really hard it's
really hard to go back on like a journey
or a promise you know what I mean like
if you think so that let's let's make it
less abstract so you you owe people
right yeah
have you taken one step towards helping
them or repaying them uh in some cases
yes I've been trying that is that them
that
is that so okay so you've taken the
first step towards repairing something
right some of it yeah not all of it
obviously and and why isn't that
relationship repaired
because over the past four years it's
been like oh yeah give me this and this
will happen oh it will great and then
doesn't happen yeah I get that so you
you need to repair your relationships so
you take the first step to repairing
your relationships and the relationship
doesn't get repaired right so when when
Frodo steps out of Rivendell is the ring
destroyed no okay so what has to happen
for him to destroy the Ring what is the
most important thing that happens after
he steps outside of Rivendell
help no I know I'm asking you okay what
does he have to do after the first step
said again what does he have to do after
the first step I mean I'm trying to even
remember the movie this is a little
Hobbit don't make it complicated okay I
can do this okay so but you can do this
and we're gonna we're not gonna help you
we're gonna leave you stranded Oh
so if if you want to take a piss ah get
the let down your zipper so no literally
you have to take a piss so you have to
you have to go to the bathroom right
okay and so you the first and you're
saying the most important step is the
first step that you take which is you
got out of chair and you take one step
forward then what do you have to do you
have to keep walking to the bathroom
exactly oh okay yes right so what is the
most important step after the first one
second step and then what's the the most
important step after the second one the
third one until you get to the bathroom
so the most important step you can take
is the next step
you
god damn that is okay I'm here I'm with
you now the next step so here's your
problem is that you're focused on the
first step and there are times where you
take the first step and that that
doesn't fix the relationship in there
are times where the first step is the
hard steps and there are times where you
can take the first step but the first
step is the next step
when you're it's when you're at it place
zero the next step is the first step and
we all get caught up in this first step
because of all these like you know epic
journeys and like it's such simple stuff
but it's actually you've been programmed
to not care about the next step this is
very important to understand our mind
focuses on the top of the mountain it
doesn't focus on the step you have to
take your mind focuses on salvation your
mind focuses on fulfilling everyone's
expectations your mind focuses on
getting out of jail your mind focuses on
the end of the journey and then it
focuses on the beginning of the journey
so we focus on the end of the journey
and society tells us okay we should you
should focus on the beginning of the
journey not the end and it's actually
all the [ __ ] in between that is the
important part
all right so like you've got it just so
let's talk about thoughts questions I
mean just setting the third grenade next
to the other two it's alright I'm good
I'm gonna ask you about your weight if
that's okay that's totally fine so tell
me tell me about your weight
well I'm huge
I must
five and
[Music]
pretty much way much as a house think
right now I think right now I must be
like 360 like a circle
which isn't the heaviest I've been
but it's like average I guess and um
yeah go on and so how do you feel about
that
well I want to be anyone that's not me
it's like because it's
cuz I'm not funny fat so it makes it
hard like I have like I have like a
massive ass and thighs and breasts and
sure that's funny to think about but TV
glorifies those with like beer bellies
you know like big burly men that with
the beer in the sports
that's funny fat you can get away with
that with with me I if I don't have a
mustache I look like a lesbian I am NOT
that isn't you know even a bit like I've
been mistaken for a female so many times
if I don't have facial hair it is not
isn't it
it's crazy so it's like that's more
funny to laugh at not with sure and I'm
actually fine with being the butt of
jokes but not about the door that keeps
me from success like that you know that
be like that's the only thing where I'm
like okay well I don't like this either
yes so Skyy what I'm hearing from you is
that like I I do agree I think you've
gotten very comfortable with becoming
the butt of jokes that's like that's
actually become some of your armor right
like and there are a lot of people who
for them motivation to get into shape
comes from being the butt of jokes
unfortunately you're not so lucky
yeah and that you you're you've learned
how to wear other people's ridicule like
armor I just fire back at them to depend
yeah like if it's my friend yeah we just
go toe to toe and and so I I do think
that there's something going on so you
were kind of saying something about you
know this beautiful like super
subconscious level stuff about like the
door and and your weight and how the
door is holding you back and like what
was that like help me understand that
it sounded brilliant I just gonna keep
like when I think about all the like all
of my ideas and I daydream about videos
that I want to do they're all in a body
that's not this and it's because like
believe it or not right I was actually
as a child extremely athletic so
whenever I daydream about things that
I've been daydreaming about my entire
life my body has always looked a certain
way but then I have to like shelf those
idea
so it's like I think about what I want
to do when I act and oh oh but also um I
strangely have a deep amount of pride
for the way that I look in public I have
very good ass-crack awareness I don't
like to wear shirts that show that at
all I will always when I when I shower I
have a whole cycle takes me a long time
I have been told that I smell good when
I go to people's houses that have wooden
furniture I make sure to sit on the
floor
this is phat etiquette and so it's like
I I make all of these adjustments and
changes because of how much I don't want
to be in the body than I am now and I
fix 8 on every other YouTube channel
every other creator because I just feel
like I don't know ok that's where I get
lost
so Skyy I think you've stumbled upon
something that's very very important ok
so when you think about when you think
about doing all this content you were
not in the body that you need to be to
do that content right yes so like what
that means is that like your life you
have an excuse to put your life on hold
right in the truth right and this is
really important like like everyone
who's listening like I do this [ __ ] too
so so we all have these ideas we have
these fantasies about what our life is
going to be like but all of the
fantasies don't start with where we are
they start at some point in the future
and we say that everything begins once I
get to that once I graduate from college
or once I get off of academic probation
or once I lose weight or once this
happens then I can start living I am
getting absolutely bodied oh yes that oh
man
life begins tomorrow not today
so you're damn right I think I mean it's
beautiful you're the one who put this
together man you were the one who's
saying that that your weight is the door
now you give me you gave me the sword
and shield I just okay
oh my god yeah okay Jesus okay III
thought that was so not common I just
didn't think that anyone would be able
to say it because it whenever I look at
like people doing their own thing it's
like they're going through this grind
and I've never really liked oh sorry I
was gonna say that I never grinded but
that's not true when I wasn't when I
wasn't on YouTube I've been working jobs
ever since I was 14 and by the time I
was 17 I was working three restaurant
jobs like throughout my life until about
22 when this whole thing happened now
I'm almost 30 so it's like I don't know
okay you're right about my life being
put on hold until tomorrow unfortunately
right what sucks most about weight loss
is that it really there are some changes
that someone can make like let's say I
was an alcoholic I could just it's not
this easy right but in theory I could
stop drinking today and then I can
declare myself like okay well I'm off
alcohol and the changes can happen over
time there won't be too many massive
physical ones compared to weight loss
but with weight it's like well even if I
took a stand today and started eating
healthy I'm still gonna be in this body
for a good amount of time and it is so
hard to like think that in that time
people will still be here waiting or if
they should you know I mean
yeah that's a hard one I think so we're
gonna talk a little bit about
spirituality if that's okay let's go
yeah take me so what do you understand
what the word karma means sky karma no
cars no Karma
yeah yes Karma sorry yeah no no that's
fine I just yeah the comment card
you're half brown right yes I'm half
Indian half black yeah that's why I
heard it I was like I my understanding
of it it's not just what goes around
comes around like good is that just it
no no no but I know there's more to it
okay
let's start with what goes around comes
around so I want you guys to think about
karma like planting a seed and growing
as a tree that bears fruit so we think
about creation we think about like
creating change right and you're saying
like okay like the problem here is that
when I start to do the right thing even
though I'm like creating that change
that change is delayed so like it's hard
because you're thinking about it like
creating a change and you're doing all
the right stuff but you're not like
reaping the rewards yet and it's hard to
continue to be motivated when you're
doing stuff and you're not getting
reinforced positively it's kind of like
being prudent about your 401k like if
you just are really like I guess
disciplined and things that you do now
you get a better future
a matte really yes sort of like that so
let's just think about that for a second
so I think the challenge here is that
for a lot of people were motivated by
stuff going our way like we want out of
boys we want positive reinforcement
that's like a normal part of human
psychology right so if you're in a job
in your job your boss says hey you did a
really good job today
like that's gonna motivate you to work
hard tomorrow and what I'm hearing from
you is that even if you do all the right
things as you put it you still have to
be in this body for a while even if
you're doing the right stuff and that's
hard so what I want to explain is so I
think we need to think about your your
change in weight is not something that
you do but something that you cultivate
it's not something you can't create the
body that you want to you can cultivate
the body that you want to what's the
difference between creation and
cultivation cultivation I guess would
stem from something lesser in and and
and and and and kind of nursing it to
something greater whereas creation is
taking something from nothing
yeah absolutely so what do you have more
control over creation or cultivation
cultivate
yeah okay cultivation cuz you can't your
I can't create a body I can't create
life like ah I have to interest I mean
that's an interesting take I was
actually thinking the opposite but I
think yours makes sense too yeah so let
me put it to you this way
so like if I want to build but I think I
I think we're actually thinking about
the same thing oddly enough probably um
but so like if I want to make a plant
grow
like if I wanted tomato plant and I have
a seed like can I make that plant grow
in time you can do it whatever whatever
you need to do to make it grow can I so
let's say I plant it and what do I need
to do to make it so I take a seat and I
stick it in the earth and then what do I
need to do to make it grow
water ok so I water it then does the
plant grow no I mean it gets water but
then it doesn't grow immediately at all
okay am i gay is it going to grow
eventually
god I hope so yeah that's the right
answer
I hope so right because it may not grow
oh yeah know that oh yeah I never
thought about it not growing
seed water so that's the that's exactly
so this is the point sky because we
think that if we create a formula for
success that the success will happen oh
we assume that the success will happen
but the success actually doesn't happen
it's not ours to control right so this
is your whole problem is that your
perception that you can control your
weight you can't control your weight all
you can control you can't control
whether whether the plant grows or not
all you can control is whether you want
and this is the hard thing because
you're expecting a result you eat
healthy one day and you're like where's
my [ __ ] tomato plant probably the
next day and you're like where's my
[ __ ] tomato plant
the reason I'm eating healthy is because
I wanted to me like the reason I'm
watering this is so that I get the
tomatoes like where are my tomatoes yeah
and every day that goes by you do the
right thing over and over and over again
for a week but you have to live in that
body for a while right
you just can't like this is the thing
like so this is the problem with like a
mindset that's built on positive
reinforcement which is what our society
largely conditions us to do we talk
about like you know giving everyone a
trophy and all that kind of [ __ ]
nowadays talk about positive
reinforcement we don't punish people we
don't spank people etc and I'm not
saying that that's bad it's just I just
have to understand what effects this has
on our psychology so the problem is that
you're doing all the right things and
you're not seeing the result and
therefore you are losing motivation
because your goal is the result which
makes sense it's like duh right your
goal is to lose weight that needs to
change
you need to start focusing on the
actions you can't lose the weight don't
focus on the result don't focus on the
plant because you can't control whether
the plant grows like you can't control
whether two months from now you get
depressed and all of your hard work goes
to the wind right you can't control that
what can you control
oh [ __ ] something oh darn sorry uh my
mind is just finding room for the rest
of the grenades okay that's okay take it
take your time
so I I can control
what I eat absolutely exactly right so
like I want you to think about this what
you eat which step is that
step one sort of yeah sure
right so it's it's the next step like is
what you eat oh hi Meg said right so you
sure it's step one because like every
every meal is one step and so you can't
control whether you get to mortar you
don't know if you're gonna make it there
you don't know what's gonna happen you
don't know if you're gonna get abducted
by orcs you don't know if there's gonna
be an earthquake but you can control the
next meal
and if your goal is to lose weight like
that's not the right way to do it you
could just gotta focus on the next step
that's what now Phoenix I product you're
taking the right steps exactly this is
exactly right beautiful word by-product
goals and success or byproducts they're
not created this is one of the biggest
things that's misunderstood in life
success is a byproduct it's not a goal
weight loss is not literally so tell me
I want you to tell me Skyy pretend that
that I'm that
trying to think about this pretend I'm a
robot and that my I want to lose weight
how do I lose weight like robots not the
right word I would say okay like howdy
how do you lose weight what do you do
give me verbs
you eat the right foods yeah and not a
lot of them okay you drink water yep
maybe exercise yeah right so that's not
losing weight I want you to understand
this very clearly losing weight is not
something you can do
losing weight is not a verb
losing weight
is a byproduct of actions
oh my god okay
then that means that
that means that my II shouldn't
focus on getting like a million subs or
having a million views all I can do is
just make good stuff and the byproduct
would be success exactly now you
understand because you're not even
[ __ ] talking about weight loss
anymore
right you're talking about what you can
actually control and your problem is
you're so [ __ ] obsessed with the subs
that's not where you're this being
obsessed with subs does nothing to get
you subs focus on the content sure so
like it and this is the funny thing is
if you if you look at your life you've
done that before when did you do that
what's the example of when you focus on
the content and you gave - you gave no
shits about your subs in your following
base you told me about it earlier today
that was that was when I put out a video
every day absolutely success is the
byproduct it's not the goal
this is what Dharma means Dharma means
duty or responsibility devote yourself
to the action like when I work in the
emergency room and I mean I don't do
this now but like if someone comes in
who's got a heart attack and I think to
myself oh [ __ ] this guy's gonna die oh
[ __ ] this is this guy is gonna die how
does that help me as his doctor what
matters is chest compressions right like
whether the guy dies or doesn't die like
I have no control over that what I have
control over is bop-bop bop-bop bop-bop
bop-bop stay in life step out real yeah
that's that other rhythm that you do it
to when you're doing chest compressions
it's good later on I'm definitely in the
practice so you're saying that when the
dude comes in with a heart attack you're
not thinking about saving his life so
much as you're thinking about doing the
steps that have been proven to save
lives
the byproduct that you yeah it's not
even do it it's doing the next thing
right does the guy have a [ __ ] pulse
if he has if he doesn't have a pulse
we're gonna do chest compressions if
he's got a pulse then we're gonna move
on to the next thing we're gonna check
his blood pressure we're gonna check
this or check that check his breathing
but the most important thing is the next
thing
and like I think you fail you tell me if
if the guy dies and you did everything
right or you did everything to the best
of your ability I guess I guess that's
just life and I guess that just sucks
how do you think you feel though
honestly I think about this a lot and I
don't know how if I actually gave a
hundred percent to something and then I
failed I don't know if I would be upset
about it because it's like that's all I
could have given like I guess everything
that I could
so Skyy I want you to go back and watch
this vaad in earlier we talked about
giving it all going on stage and what
happening and I fell and what did I say
that how are you gonna feel when you do
that that I'm not gonna feel too good
about it
but then what are they saying now and
now I'm saying that if I went on stage
and I gave 100% that I wouldn't feel bad
about it absolutely what does that mean
no that means you understand now what
you didn't understand before in an hour
right go back because I told you
something that you were skeptical about
I said if you give it your all it
actually feels fine and you think so
you're like I don't think so I think I
would feel devastated because I gave and
now you know right cuz you did
everything that you could
and sometimes you water the tomato plant
day after day after day and the [ __ ]
doesn't grow or well I I haven't done
everything that I could but I know what
you're trying to say absolutely and
that's why you deserve regret
oh wow
deserve regret yes that is the that's
that's my new rap name that is the I
I've never heard those two words next to
each other ever so that's the third
regret that is fascinating to serving it
because you didn't give it your all
right so like when that guy comes in
when that guy comes into the emergency
room and his heart isn't beating there
is a scenario in which I deserve regret
and what is that scenario if you didn't
try your best
absolutely oh my god
grenades Nevada nuke Oh Oh God okay this
is crazy
I don't even know what does everything
good just think that you're doing great
sky I hope because this is god I was so
arrogant like I was thinking like like
now you see your ego excellent yeah but
okay how do I get rid of that you're
doing you're doing it the first thing is
to recognize it right the first thing is
to recognize so you didn't even realize
that that was ego you thought that that
was you you thought it was logical you
thought it was correct thought it was
normal
yeah like yeah and now you see that
there's a different way perfect and
practically I think you need to instill
some confidence in yourself by I was
about to say losing weight but not
losing weight so you taught me Skyy what
are what are you gonna do losing weight
is not something you can do what are you
gonna do be better that's like way too
[ __ ] abstract for me I'm going to
ah I mean I guess the first the first
thing I'll do is like it's so funny that
if you just looked like right around me
out of frame is just a desolate
wasteland of soda and pizza and and just
[ __ ] so the first thing I'm gonna do is
probably clean up all this garbage and
replace the food that I have probably
going Quito again that's what I did last
time it worked out there is very well it
works really well for me or for
everybody works for me
[ __ ] and then I'm just gonna do things
one step at a time I'm gonna edit a
video today and what the next step is
just to make another video I guess if I
just think of it as just releasing
videos instead of having the goal of
getting views or subs
that's gonna yield a better result yep
it's probably big so now we get to the
Zen stuff where they're like if you want
the best result let go of the result
write this all those like Zen Cohen like
you know them to say like you know
what's the sound of one hand clapping
and it's like weird and paradoxical but
yeah so you're gonna crumble up it was
the one hand clapping thing what it is
as they ask a question what's the sound
of one hand clapping that's a pretty
famous one I've never heard that best
type that's it's called a Cohen so
Cohens are tools that are used to help
us break out of like the logic of our
mind because truth is not logical like
understanding is like not logical so
earlier you had a logical conclusion
that giving it your all and falling flat
would be devastating
and that's a logical conclusion because
when you give 50% and you fall flat
you hurt 50% and you're protected 50%
and so when you give 75% and you hold
back 25% it hurts more than when you
give 50% so it's logical to assume that
if you give a hundred percent you'll be
completely devastated
but oddly enough that's not how it works
so I'm thrilled to hear that you're
gonna clean your room in edit videos I
think somewhere in there you should make
a trip to a grocery store is that doable
yes okay that logical thing you just
said - yeah I'm just like it's just all
like okay sorry it's just crazy fine it
just it's crazy to think that it felt
like this wasn't in my capacity of
understanding and I was just trapped and
then I would have just what like how'd I
not talk to you just died just just
thinking these things were true
that's terrifying No so don't be
terrified I mean I understand that it's
terrifying so you're missing a piece on
equation right is that like like I'm
here though
and and I'm supposed to be here and this
is karma this is karma that I owe you
something
and this is me repaying a debt you owe
you owe me something yes
hmm right so it's my job in life you
chose this birth and this is like you
guys don't have to believe this stuff
it's just a perspective that I find
useful that you're your soul are a part
of yourself set up a life in which there
gonna be some people who help you out
and I'm one of those people and this is
because in a previous life when I was
like you know had a I don't know what
the equivalent of like ancient YouTube
is but I asked you to sub and you subbed
and then I didn't make content and so I
owe you in this that's dead I am
familiar with this yeah well and don't
worry sky because Frodo
it was Frodo's job to get to Mount Doom
right
Frodo what would have happened if froat
like if no one came along
Frodo what is this good body
yeah but absolutely but the truth is
that like a lot of people came along
right yes with freed up yes and the good
news is that like you're not living life
alone and that I'm here your community
is there hopefully some family members
or people that you love are there and
that people will continue to appear in
your life to help you out when you need
it
have faith in that that is all things
that I believe I am only my last
remaining obstacle I know that I don't
know if we're probably like at a time
but I I just want to say
I hear all of that and and and and now I
will say that even in this conversation
there have been many mean after this
call of course I'm just going to go sit
in my room and stare at the wall for a
bit which is good they're all good stuff
um I guess I just need I hope I hope
that someone bets on me one more time
right now of course you know I'm I'm at
the end as I've told you before of this
cycle
I've downsized the people that I have
lived with I've I've cut my rent in the
fourth
I used to panic just like an incredible
amount now I'm able to save money but
I'm still out of it so all I'm hoping
right now is that with the tools that
you've given me I know that I can I know
that I can be better I mean really I do
Jesus Christ but I'm about to watch the
[ __ ] again so sky this is very important
to understand don't let your mind get
into this last refuge which is that you
can use all of the tools that I'm giving
you and is your life going to be
transformed
I mean it is not guaranteed absolutely
I'm glad you understand that yeah oh
yeah I mean like there's still a
possibility that after this like I just
fail but
I I guess like I have I personally feel
like I have to be fine with it if that
happens because the ice like I set
myself into this life I made my bed hard
I gotta lay in it good my dad but I am
going to use your tools and hopefully my
by-product become success from it so
absolutely beautiful so I think that
like one last thought that I'll leave
you so sometimes I use this analogy with
people who are especially recovering
from substances that there's a lag time
between sowing positive karma and
reaping negative karma that a lot of
times in life like if you've been using
substances for a long time then you have
like you've sown all this shitty-ass
like fruit that's toxic and it bears it
grows into trees and it bears fruit and
you're harvesting that nasty-ass fruit
and you're sowing good seeds you're
sowing like fresh healthy fruit but
there's a lag time where you're doing
all the right stuff and you're just
getting bodied day after day after day
after day
and you just have to like persevere and
keep on putting one foot forward and
then acknowledge that if you don't
continue sewing bad karma that crop of
fruit will run out and then you'll be
like in in in the good zone
but that you buy yourself some amount of
[ __ ] based on this the Karma that you've
sown in the past so you buy yourself
being 360 pounds you buy yourself
exorbitant rent but already you've
started to so good karma you've cut back
on your rent you're thinking about like
going back on keto you're coming on
stream and you're actually like talking
about this [ __ ] which is hard to talk
about right so these are positive
Karma's and like the habits and and sort
of what consequences of your past
behavior still linger and so just be
prepared for those and you're gonna get
bodied some but that people will show up
and people will help you and if you
continue to do the right thing every day
that your life will be different
that's what I believe
thoughts questions
yes but I don't want to I could just
talk forever so I don't I just uh I just
got to sit with it I guess
okay so oh go on
you want to sit with it I mean I'm just
saying I can talk about it I'm lonely
I'm not clear about how much time we
have I I know that it's really not good
to put like you know I'm not even
pressing anything it's just you know you
already know I could just talk for the
rest of my life so like I don't want to
waste your time or you know I'm not
worried about you wasting my time I do
think though that sky that in my
experience talking for about an hour if
we continue talking you're gonna lose
the earlier stuff select the the brain
has sort of a bandwidth of like one hour
of like education at a time or like
discovery so I want you to sit with
those my only question is do you want to
meditate right now or do you want to
just have these thoughts in your head
and process them I am comfortable
talking about what I think or whatever
or discussing it now definitely like I'm
never not ready for that it's just this
is like I mean this is just big okay so
then I think just just think give
yourself time to think and and then
let's let's check in yet yeah let's
check in whenever okay yeah you let me
know just you know it can be on an off
stream just let me know cuz this is
because I mean I'll be honest like I
guess closing thoughts for me then sure
I would like to believe that people that
are my fans or followers family friends
I'd like to believe that that I
definitely actually convinced myself in
every way shape and form long before
today something that they may have never
seen like maybe they don't maybe when I
go out on stage they don't see me as
they never saw me as falling I never
fell I thought that I did and I put that
into my head and probably made bad
content afterwards because of that but
it was clouded with the idea that I
wasn't like that I was an impostor that
looked like the person that when I first
started youtube I opposed the video and
I'm looking I'm responding to no joke
9,000 comments I'm I'm literally
responding to everybody and now I don't
do that I can't even look at my channel
so it's like this is how this just has a
lot and and I I look forward to the
follow-up I promise you nothing of what
was said in the US and I'm going to
watch this bod so much that I might
memorize it like okay so Skyy I'm gonna
leave you with one last burden okay oh
so oh sweet yeah I know so I'm at least
I'm being transparent about it so
understand that people are watching
right and I I think that what's gonna
happen with people are watching is like
some of them are getting voyeuristic
pleasure out of it some of our getting
some of them are getting intellectual
pleasure out of it some of them are
wondering like there's stuff that you're
saying that resonates with them there's
things that are coming out of your mouth
are there things about your life that
they feel are true of their lives and
they're wondering whether change is
actually possible they're wondering
whether change is like that they're
wondering like is this irreversible or
is there hope who do you think bears the
responsibility for showing them that
there's hope the answer me yes me is
right there the person who's getting
wheeled into the emergency room after a
heart attack and you're the guy who's
gonna do
compressions that's your Dharma that's
what you owe them I owe them a lot
yeah biblical amount so don't let him
down and grow I get one yep yep it's
wrong work man
thanks for coming on thank you what you
want to just tell people about your
channel real quick sure everyone hi my
last four years have been me crying but
I make fun videos I do gameplay videos
with friends and I do vlogs and
hopefully my channel will be filled with
content that's not sponsored or me
complaining good but I just I don't know
who they're I don't know if they're mad
at me till so like debate windows okay
well you know yes it's so um how about
you I'll come on by the channel and a
few weeks after it's been spruced up
with content and all the old stuff is
buried how about that yeah cool so I
think I like watching Sky play wall I
don't know if you mentioned that I'm
very loud and angry when I play League
of Legends it is a it is a plague on
society and I I endure it for you yeah
cool but dude you're amazing thank you
for having me on again I'm always this
is always helpful and let me know
whenever you're free and sure here okay
take care of sky good luck man okay all
right thank you you do oh you know you
don't need luck no you a guy I mean
friend you're a god anyway I'm gonna go
sit in my room and just think okay
that's good I'll try